It is important to take a stand on these alternatives. The phenomena reported below are off such that they easily invite explanation rather than explanation. "One does not believe such", and the person in question often means by "such" a phenomenon that is not recognized as physically real and potentially available for understanding based on known knowledge. One forgets preferably that the real is first separated from the non-real after examination and clarification of the nature of the phenomenon. New phenomena must be met with relevant knowledge. Do not stretch relevant knowledge to, one must as a minimum seek to clarify the new form and content, and the situations that arise within. This information must then be tested against available and relevant knowledge. Only after such a test will one be able to assess whether one can and should move on. This must also be the case with the Lalm observations, given that one can have confidence in the observations as sources of knowledge. Another setting is fundamentally unscientific and leads to cementing of the existing and cutting off of new recognition. Our knowledge history has many examples of people who have not wish to see the ring mountains on the moon in Galileo Galiles' telescope — such as representatives of the Church his time did. In the present: We know that we still have a lot to do in understanding the world in us and around us. The Lalm phenomenon belongs within the scientifically new and unknown.

Translation1 (from longer translation; the one above is of the orig.txt file directly)
==========
It is important to take a stand on these alternatives. The phenomena reported below are of such a nature that they easily invite explanation rather than explanation. "One does not believe such", and the person in question often means by "such" a phenomenon that is not recognized as physically real and potentially available for understanding based on known knowledge. One forgets preferably that the real is first separated from the non-real after examination and clarification of the nature of the phenomenon. New phenomena must be met with relevant knowledge. Do not stretch relevant knowledge, one must as a minimum seek to clarify the new form and content, and the situations that arise within. This information must then be tested against available and relevant knowledge. Only after such a test will one be able to assess whether one can and should move on. This must also be the case with the Lalm observations, given that one can have confidence in the observations as sources of knowledge. Another setting is fundamentally unscientific and leads to cementing of the existing and cutting off of new recognition. Our knowledge history has many examples of people who have not wish to see the ring mountains on the moon in Galileo Galiles' telescope — such as representatives of the Church his time did. In the present: We know that we still have a lot to do in understanding the world in us and around us. The Lalm phenomena belong within the scientifically new and unknown.